Menu

[University of Gothenburg](https://www.gu.se/en)

- [Contact](https://www.gu.se/en/contact)

- - [Svenska](https://www.gu.se/studera/hitta-utbildning/speciella-amnen-i-programvaruteknik-dit005/kursplan/c5beea2c-a0db-11ef-a309-15d1eab44478)
- [English](https://www.gu.se/en/study-gothenburg/special-topics-in-software-engineering-dit005/syllabus/c5beea2c-a0db-11ef-a309-15d1eab44478)

Search


Menu


Search


Search

Search

Page content

Syllabus


# Special topics in software engineering

## Speciella ämnen i programvaruteknik

Course


DIT005


Second cycle


7.5 credits (ECTS)


## About the Syllabus

Registration number


GU 2024/2323


Date of entry into force


2025-03-15


Decision date


2024-11-08


Valid from semester


Autumn term 2025


Decision maker


Department of Computer Science and Engineering


## Grading scale

Four-grade scale, digits


## Course modules

Assignments, 7.5 Credits


## Position

The course can be part of the following programmes:

1. Software engineering and management, masters programme (N2SOF)

## Entry requirements

To be eligible for the course, the student should have completed at least 7.5 credits in software engineering.

Applicants must prove knowledge of English: English 6/English B or the equivalent level of an internationally recognized test, for example TOEFL, IELTS.

## Content

The field of software engineering is evolving rapidly, with new technologies, development methods, and organizational processes emerging on a regular basis. This course is a seminar-style course intended to enable students to explore topics within the field of software engineering.

Each time that the course is held, it will focus on a specific topic selected by the examiner, which will be announced in advance on the Canvas page for the master’s program.

The course will consist primarily of seminars, led by teachers, practitioners, researchers, and students. Students will select aspects of the core topic to explore in detail, culminating in a presentation and a report on the selected aspects.

## Objectives

On successful completion of the course the student will be able to:

**Knowledge and understanding**

- Describe existing techniques, tools, and methods within software engineering and their relation to presented research
- Summarize and contrast recent relevant software engineering research

**Competence and skills**

- Read research papers on software engineering, present their content, and critically discuss the presented motivation, research design, and findings
- Examine new software engineering knowledge and relate it to past knowledge as well as knowledge presented in this course
- Identify meaningful future extensions for software engineering research

**Judgement and approach**

- Judge the limitations of state-of-the-art software engineering research
- Assess potential biases and ethical issues affecting software engineering research

## Sustainability labelling

No sustainability labelling.


## Form of teaching

This course is conducted in the form of a literature seminar, which combines reading research publications and other relevant literature, presentations from students, practitioners, and researchers, and discussions.

Students will explore, in detail, aspects of the core topic of that instance of the course and will educate other students on those aspects. Based on this exploration, they will develop a written report.

_Language of instruction_: English

## Examination formats

The course is assessed based on the student's written report and individual presentation. In addition, active participation and contribution to discussions (e.g., as an opponent for a seminar) will be used as part of determining the final course grade.

If a student who has been failed twice for the same examination element wishes to change examiner before the next examination session, such a request is to be granted unless there are specific reasons to the contrary (Chapter 6 Section 22 HF).

If a student has received a certificate of disability study support from the University of Gothenburg with a recommendation of adapted examination and/or adapted forms of assessment, an examiner may decide, if this is consistent with the course’s intended learning outcomes and provided that no unreasonable resources would be needed, to grant the student adapted examination and/or adapted forms of assessment.

If a course has been discontinued or undergone major changes, the student must be offered at least two examination sessions in addition to ordinary examination sessions. These sessions are to be spread over a period of at least one year but no more than two years after the course has been discontinued/changed. The same applies to placement and internship (VFU) except that this is restricted to only one further examination session.

If a student has been notified that they fulfil the requirements for being a student at Riksidrottsuniversitetet (RIU student), to combine elite sports activities with studies, the examiner is entitled to decide on adaptation of examinations if this is done in accordance with the Local rules regarding RIU students at the University of Gothenburg.

## Grades

Assignments, 7,5 credits

Grading scale: Pass with distinction (5), Pass with credit (4), Pass (3) and Fail (U).

In order to pass the course, both the report and presentation must be awarded a passing grade. The final grade in the course is decided from the grades on the report, presentation, and participation.

## Course evaluation

The course is evaluated through meetings both during and after the course between teachers and student representatives. Further, an anonymous questionnaire is used to ensure written information. The outcome of the evaluations serves to improve the course by indication which parts could be added, improved, changed or removed.

## Other regulations

The course is a joint course together with Chalmers.