Menu

[University of Gothenburg](https://www.gu.se/en)

- [Contact](https://www.gu.se/en/contact)

- - [Svenska](https://www.gu.se/studera/hitta-utbildning/manniska-datorinteraktion-dit096/kursplan/bf9210a6-bbb5-11ef-9553-beecfac44351)
- [English](https://www.gu.se/en/study-gothenburg/human-computer-interaction-dit096/syllabus/bf9210a6-bbb5-11ef-9553-beecfac44351)

Search


Menu


Search


Search

Search

Page content

Syllabus


# Human-Computer Interaction

## Människa-datorinteraktion

Course


DIT096


First cycle


7.5 credits (ECTS)


Go to
[Human-Computer Interaction](https://www.gu.se/en/study-gothenburg/human-computer-interaction-dit096)

## About the Syllabus

Registration number (Format: GU 20XX/XXXX)


GU 2024/2323


Date of entry into force


2025-03-15


Decision date


2024-11-19


Valid from semester


Autumn term 2025


Decision maker


Department of Computer Science and Engineering


## Grading scale

Four-grade scale, digits


## Course modules

Written hall examination, 4.5 Credits


Project, 3 Credits


## Position

The course is a compulsory course in the Software Engineering and Management, Bachelor’s Programme (N1SOF).

The course can also be part of the following programmes:

1. Computer Science, Bachelor's Programme (N1COS)
2. Software Engineering and Management, Master's Programme (N2SOF)
3. Applied Data Science, Master'sProgramme (N2ADS)

The course is a also a single-subject course at Gothenburg University.

## Entry requirements

To be eligible for this course, the student must have successfully completed 7.5 hec in programming (e.g., DIT009 Fundamentals of programming or DIT044 Object-oriented programming, or equivalent)

Applicants must prove knowledge of English: English 6/English B or the equivalent level of an internationally recognized test, for example TOEFL, IELTS.

## Content

Human Computer Interaction (HCI) is a field which deals with the design, evaluation and implementation of interactive systems and studying phenomena around them. The aim of the course is to allow students to experience the most important phases of user-

centered design:

- understanding context of use,
- charting requirements,
- generating multiple design solutions and
- evaluating prototypes with users.

The course consists of both theoretical and practical parts, and students learn about the different steps in the design process and relevant methods for designing for users. The course covers a broad area of designing interactive systems, which includes different types of interfaces and interaction modalities. The course prepares students to collaborate in an interdisciplinary environment with specialists in design and cognitive science.

## Objectives

On successful completion of the course the student will be able to:

**_Knowledge and understanding_**

- Describe phases in the design process
- Describe methods for development and evaluation of human-computer interaction
- Describe similarities and differences in design for different user groups
- Describe considerations for involving users in the design process
- Understand the role of human computer interaction (HCI) in the software development process and information technology

**_Competence and skills_**

- Design interfaces for certain user groups
- Adapt design methods to suit users' context and needs
- Investigate and describe user needs and requirements
- Include ethical issues in the design process and adapt the process for ethical needs

**_Judgement and approach_**

- Analyze designs based on user needs
- Make a well-founded evaluation of the ethical and societal consequences of a design
- Critique design and design processes with respect to user needs

## Sustainability labelling

No sustainability labelling.


## Form of teaching

The course consists of lectures, exercises, a project and a written hall examination. The exercises and the project are carried out in groups.

_Language of instruction:_ English

## Examination formats

The course is examined through two modules, namely:

- Written hall examination, 4.5 credits (U, 3,4,5)
- Project, 3 credits (Pass, Fail)

To be approved for the course, both modules must be approved. The grade for the entire course is determined by the exam.

If a student who has been failed twice for the same examination element wishes to change examiner before the next examination session, such a request is to be granted unless there are specific reasons to the contrary (Chapter 6 Section 22 HF).

If a student has received a certificate of disability study support from the University of Gothenburg with a recommendation of adapted examination and/or adapted forms of assessment, an examiner may decide, if this is consistent with the course’s intended learning outcomes and provided that no unreasonable resources would be needed, to grant the student adapted examination and/or adapted forms of assessment.

If a course has been discontinued or undergone major changes, the student must be offered at least two examination sessions in addition to ordinary examination sessions. These sessions are to be spread over a period of at least one year but no more than two years after the course has been discontinued/changed. The same applies to placement and internship (VFU) except that this is restricted to only one further examination session.

If a student has been notified that they fulfil the requirements for being a student at Riksidrottsuniversitetet (RIU student), to combine elite sports activities with studies, the examiner is entitled to decide on adaptation of examinations if this is done in accordance with the Local rules regarding RIU students at the University of Gothenburg.

## Grades

**Sub-courses**

1. **_Written hall examination_**, 4.5 credits


Grading scale: Pass with distinction (5), Pass with credit (4), Pass (3) and Fail (U)
2. **_Project_**, 3 credits


Grading scale: Pass (G) and Fail (U)

The grading scale for the whole course comprises: Pass with distinction (5), Pass with credit (4), Pass (3) and Fail (U).

To pass the course, students must receive a passing grade in both modules. The grade for the entire course will be determined by the written hall examination.

## Course evaluation

The course is evaluated through meetings both during and after the course between teachers and student representatives. Further, an anonymous questionnaire is used to ensure written information. The outcome of the evaluations serves to improve the course by indication which parts could be added, improved, changed or removed.

## Other regulations

The course is a joint course together with Chalmers.

The course replaces the course DIT095, 7.5 credits. The course cannot be included in a degree which contains DIT095. Neither can the course be included in a degree which is based on another degree in which the course DIT095 is included.