Menu

[University of Gothenburg](https://www.gu.se/en)

- [Contact](https://www.gu.se/en/contact)

- - [Svenska](https://www.gu.se/studera/hitta-utbildning/projekt-agil-projektledning-dit099/kursplan/f9a45222-2d3f-11ef-a2a0-4c1db4504bb5)
- [English](https://www.gu.se/en/study-gothenburg/project-agile-software-project-management-dit099/syllabus/f9a45222-2d3f-11ef-a2a0-4c1db4504bb5)

Search


Menu


Search


Search

Search

Page content

Syllabus


# Project: Agile Software Project Management

## Projekt: Agil projektledning

Course


DIT099


First cycle


7.5 credits (ECTS)


## About the Syllabus

Registration number


GU 2023/2239


Date of entry into force


2024-08-26


Decision date


2024-06-19


Valid from semester


Autumn term 2024


Decision maker


Department of Computer Science and Engineering


## Grading scale

Four-grade scale, digits


## Course modules

Project, 7.5 Credits


## Position

The course is a compulsory course in the N1SOF Software Engineering and Management Bachelor's Programme.

## Entry requirements

To be eligible for the course, students must have successfully completed 7.5 hec in programaming (for example Fundamentals of Programming).

## Content

The course introduces the students the theories, concepts and practices of agile project management and software development projects. The course focuses on agile project management, the agile process of creating software, the skill of programming and working together as a team towards a common goal.

The purpose of this course is to give the students an introduction to the agile project management area and the tools and techniques used to manage software agile development projects. The course introduces the students agile software development and discusses principles and practices of agile methods. Areas such as cost estimation, risk management, and project evaluation are also discussed.

Students work in a project to create a software prototype and relevant documentation from a conceptual idea and specification. The project enables the students to practice and develop their skills within agile project management and to collaborate, communicate and take responsibility. The project requires the student to organize their work efficiently.

## Objectives

On successful completion of the course the student will be able to:

**Knowledge and understanding**

- relate software development to agile project management activities,
- explain different methods and techniques within the agile project management area,
- describe concept and terminology within the agile project management area,
- analyze a programming problem, describe the problem and its design solution in an abstract way,
- use the agile manifest and its accompanying principles,
- explain important roles in the agile development process,

**Competence and skills**

- plan and execute an agile project using different techniques for time management, risk management, cost estimations, project budgeting as well as project monitoring,
- define criteria for agile project reviews,
- identify and manage the risks involved in an agile project,
- design and implement a solution from a problem description,
- collaborate and apply agile way of working in software development teams,
- design measurement system to follow continuous improvement of teams' performance,

**Judgement and approach**

- work in a project team, divide a project in tasks and dividing tasks among team members,
- take individual responsibility within a project team,
- communicate and interact professionally within a project team, and
- communicate results of the project to interested parties in professional ways.

## Sustainability labelling

No sustainability labelling.


## Form of teaching

The teaching consists of lectures, workshops, and a project, as well as supervision in connection to the project.

_Language of instruction_: English

## Examination formats

The course is examined through a review of the artifacts the students produced for their projects, an oral presentation, a written group report, individual assignments, and individual contributions to the group work. The project is carried out in groups of students.

If a student who has twice received a failing grade for the same examination component wishes to change examiner ahead of the next examination session, such a request should be made to the department in writing and should be approved by the department unless there are special reasons to the contrary (Chapter 6 Section 22 of the Higher Education Ordinance).

If a student has received a recommendation from the University of Gothenburg for study support for students with disabilities, the examiner may, where it is compatible with the learning outcomes of the course and provided that no unreasonable resources are required, decide to allow the student to sit an adjusted exam or alternative form of assessment.

In the event that a course has ceased or undergone major changes, students are to be guaranteed at least three examination sessions (including the ordinary examination session) over a period of at least one year, but no more than two years after the course has ceased/been changed. The same applies to internships and professional placements (VFU), although this is restricted to just one additional examination session.

## Grades

Sub-courses

1. Project (Projekt), 7.5 credits


Grading scale: Pass with distinction (5), Pass with credit (4), Pass (3) and Fail (U)

The grading scale comprises: Pass with distinction (5), Pass with credit (4), Pass (3) and Fail (U). To pass the course, all mandatory components must be passed. To earn a higher grade than Pass, a higher weighted average from the grades of the components is required.

## Course evaluation

The results of and possible changes to the course will be shared with students who participated in the evaluation and students who are starting the course.

## Other regulations

Course literature to be announced the latest 8 weeks prior to the start of the course.

The course replaces the course DIT094, 7.5 credits. The course cannot be included in a degree which contains DIT094. Neither can the course be included in a degree which is based on another degree in which the course DIT094 is included.