Menu

[University of Gothenburg](https://www.gu.se/en)

- [Contact](https://www.gu.se/en/contact)

- - [Svenska](https://www.gu.se/studera/hitta-utbildning/forandringsledning-i-mjukvaruutveckling-dit038/kursplan/192d9c51-bd44-11ef-af97-313f01b84cd1)
- [English](https://www.gu.se/en/study-gothenburg/change-management-in-software-development-organizations-dit038/syllabus/192d9c51-bd44-11ef-af97-313f01b84cd1)

Search


Menu


Search


Search

Search

Page content

Syllabus


# Change Management in Software Development Organizations

## Förändringsledning i mjukvaruutveckling

Course


DIT038


First cycle


7.5 credits (ECTS)


Go to
[Change Management in Software Development Organizations](https://www.gu.se/en/study-gothenburg/change-management-in-software-development-organizations-dit038)

## About the Syllabus

Registration number


GU 2024/2323


Date of entry into force


2025-03-15


Decision date


2024-11-19


Valid from semester


Autumn term 2025


Decision maker


Department of Computer Science and Engineering


## Grading scale

Four-grade scale, digits


## Course modules

Report, 7.5 Credits


## Position

The course can be part of the following programmes:

1. Software Engineering and Management, bachelors programme (N1SOF).

## Entry requirements

The course is accessible for students with a minimum of 90 higher education credits of university studies.

Applicants must prove knowledge of English: English 6/English B or the equivalent level of an internationally recognized test, for example TOEFL, IELTS.

## Content

This course focuses on explanatory and illuminating theories on organizational change and change management. The aim of the course is that students should gain an ample understanding of the phenomenon and concept of change and change management from different perspectives. The ability to change an organization is increasingly important in order to maintain, gain edge and survive in the rapidly changing environment. To meet these challenges, the software industry is moving towards more agile practices, self-

managed teams and similar efforts, which emphasizes the need for sufficient understanding of change management on all levels of the organizations. The ability to efficiently and effectively introduce, adopt, manage, and achieve change initiatives is needed from a collective and collaborative perspective in contemporary software

industry organizations.

Learning proceeds by thematic problem solving sessions in which students solve open- ended problems using theories and methods introduced in the lectures and the course literature.

## Objectives

After completion of the course the student should be able to:

**_Knowledge and understanding_**

- define the concept of change based on different dimensions and characteristics (e.g. unit of change, mode of change, tempo of change)
- describe essential skills of a change agent
- explain different approaches to change management (e.g. planned change, emergent change)

**_Skills and abilities_**

- discuss implications of different change management approaches for individuals, groups, and organizations
- apply theories included in the course to analyse and explain selected case descriptions of change processes, and explain relevant effects on individuals, groups and organizations
- synthesize the included theories and communicate your insights from the accumulated knowledge
- communicate your analyses and synthesis clearly and apply correct referencing techniques in a written report
- constructively review and reflect upon the works of other students in terms of: appropriateness and correctness of the interpretation of the content, and clarity, completeness and quality of the presentation

**_Judgment and approach_**

- be aware of ethical consequences for involved employees in an organizational change initiative
- be aware of ethical consequences for involved employees of different change management approaches in an organizational change initiative

## Sustainability labelling

No sustainability labelling.


## Form of teaching

In the course theories are introduced and the core of the required reading of the course are highlighted to help understanding of the theories. Each lecture provides an individual exercise, with the purpose to support understanding of the theory and how these theories can be used for analytical purposes of organizational change. In addition, workshops are provided in the course to support group assignments. Group assignments are designed for further learning and reflections. To support individual meta-cognitive competencies such as self-reflection and self-evaluation, peer reviewing is applied between groups. From the course participants, a certain amount of intellectual curiosity in theoretical reasoning and reflections of implications is expected. Active participation in discussions and seminars is central for the course.

_Language of instruction_: English

## Examination formats

The course is examined by an individual written report.

If a student who has been failed twice for the same examination element wishes to change examiner before the next examination session, such a request is to be granted unless there are specific reasons to the contrary (Chapter 6 Section 22 HF).

If a student has received a certificate of disability study support from the University of Gothenburg with a recommendation of adapted examination and/or adapted forms of assessment, an examiner may decide, if this is consistent with the course’s intended learning outcomes and provided that no unreasonable resources would be needed, to grant the student adapted examination and/or adapted forms of assessment.

If a course has been discontinued or undergone major changes, the student must be offered at least two examination sessions in addition to ordinary examination sessions. These sessions are to be spread over a period of at least one year but no more than two years after the course has been discontinued/changed. The same applies to placement and internship (VFU) except that this is restricted to only one further examination session.

If a student has been notified that they fulfil the requirements for being a student at Riksidrottsuniversitetet (RIU student), to combine elite sports activities with studies, the examiner is entitled to decide on adaptation of examinations if this is done in accordance with the Local rules regarding RIU students at the University of Gothenburg.

## Grades

**Sub-courses**

1. **_Report_**, 7.5 credits


Grading scale: Pass with distinction (5), Pass with credit (4), Pass (3) and Fail (U)

The grading scale comprises: Pass with distinction (5), Pass with credit (4), Pass (3) and Fail (U).

The student is graded individually based on the quality and level of knowledge and learning achievements demonstrated in the final report related to the specified learning outcomes.

To pass the course (3), the student must in the final report 1) include all the compulsory articles, 2) include an adequate level of coverage of key concepts, 3) presented in a basic level of theory-centric synthesis of their own, 4) provide examples to the theories from at least one case article, 5) provide a reflection of the guest lecture connected to the theories, 6) use correct reference techniques with a correct reference list, and 7) stays within the page limit.

To attain a 4, the student must fulfill the requirements for a 3, and in addition the report must contain a good level of coverage of key concept and demonstrate a good level of theory-centric synthesis of their own.

To attain a 5, the student must fulfil the requirements for a 4, and in addition the report must the report must contain a high level of coverage of key concepts and demonstrate a deep and comprehensive level of of theory-centric synthesis of their own, and use relevant and correct language where the totality, structure and layout achieve a high level of quality.

## Course evaluation

The course is evaluated through meetings both during and after the course between teachers and student representatives. Further, an anonymous questionnaire is used to ensure written information. The outcome of the evaluations serves to improve the course by indication which parts could be added, improved, changed or removed.

## Other regulations

Students must arrange with a computer capable of running the software tools provided by the department and are responsible for software installation.

The course replaces the course DIT035, 7.5 credits. The course cannot be included in a degree which contains DIT035. Neither can the course be included in a degree which is based on another degree in which the course DIT035 is included.

Dela länken till Facebook

Dela länken till X

Dela länken till Linkedin

Email

More Alternatives

## Share Content to Social Media

Close Pop-up

Change Management in Software Development Organizations - syllabus \| University of Gothenburg

https://www.gu.se/en/study-gothenburg/change-management-in-software-development-organizations-dit038/syllabus/192d9c51-bd44-11ef-af97-313f01b84cd1

Dela länken till Facebook

Facebook

Dela länken till X

X

Dela länken till Linkedin

Linkedin

Dela länken till Pinterest

Pinterest

Dela länken till Tumblr

Tumblr

Dela länken till Xing

Xing

Dela länken till Reddit

Reddit

Dela länken till VK

VK

Print

Print

Email

Email