Menu

[University of Gothenburg](https://www.gu.se/en)

- [Contact](https://www.gu.se/en/contact)

- - [Svenska](https://www.gu.se/studera/hitta-utbildning/integritetsskydd-for-personuppgifter-dit117/kursplan/f8d84b9b-a8e0-11ef-a240-57578bd7405a)
- [English](https://www.gu.se/en/study-gothenburg/data-privacy-dit117/syllabus/f8d84b9b-a8e0-11ef-a240-57578bd7405a)

Search


Menu


Search


Search

Search

Page content

Syllabus


# Data Privacy

## Integritetsskydd för personuppgifter

Course


DIT117


Second cycle


7.5 credits (ECTS)


## About the Syllabus

Registration number (Format: GU 20XX/XXXX)


GU 2024/2323


Date of entry into force


2025-03-15


Decision date


2024-11-20


Valid from semester


Autumn term 2025


Decision maker


Department of Computer Science and Engineering


## Grading scale

Four-grade scale, digits


## Course modules

Assignments, 3 Credits


Written hall examination, 4.5 Credits


## Position

The course can be part of the following programmes:

1. Computer Science, masters programme (N2COS)
2. Applied Data Science, masters programme (N2ADS)
3. Software Engineering and Management, masters programme (N2SOF)

## Entry requirements

90 hp points in courses in Computer Science and/or Mathematics or equivalent.

Among those courses, the student should have:

- 5.0 hp in calculus
- 7.5 hp on Statistical Methods for Data Science (DIT863) or equivalent.
- 7.5 hp on a course in functional programming (DIT143) or programming with Python (MVG301), or equivalent

## Content

In an era where data is one of our most valuable assets, data privacy has become an essential aspect of technology. This course explores the fundamental principles, technologies, and practical techniques required to protect personal information in data-driven environments. Through a blend of theoretical knowledge and hands-on assignments, this course will equip students with the tools to both understand and implement data privacy measures effectively, especially in contexts where data anonymization and privacy guarantees are critical.

The course is divided into two sub-courses: theory and assignments.

## Objectives

After completion of the course the student should be able to:

**_Knowledge and understanding_**

- Summarize the principles behind privacy laws like GDPR
- Identify data-sharing challenges with a focus on preserving privacy, including anonymization techniques and their vulnerabilities.
- Explain Differential Privacy (DP) theoretical foundations and their properties.
- Develop practical systems and tools for implementing DP.
- Use synthetic data algorithms and describe their challenges, privacy guarantees, and utility.

**_Skills and abilities_**

- Critically analyze privacy risks in data-sharing scenarios and evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of anonymization techniques and DP.
- Design and develop systems employing DP techniques.
- Test DP mechanisms and analyze their statistical soundness using established methods.
- Create synthetic data, understanding the trade-offs between data utility and privacy guarantees.

**_Judgement ability and approach_**

- Assess privacy-preserving systems and frameworks, considering the trade-offs between utility and privacy.
- Evaluate the choice of privacy-preserving techniques based on the context, considering both the theoretical guarantees and practical limitations of mechanisms like k-anonymity and differential privacy.
- Discern the ethical implications of data privacy, and align their solutions with legal frameworks like the GDPR, helping with compliance in real-world scenarios.

## Sustainability labelling

No sustainability labelling.


## Form of teaching

The course will be conducted primarily through traditional lectures and support activities like office hours to guide students in elaborating assignments.

Students will be expected to:

Attend lectures to grasp core topics, participate in discussions or in-class activities, and complete assignments.

Lecture attendance is highly recommended to fully understand the material, though it may not be compulsory.

Assignments will be compulsory and are essential for demonstrating the ability to apply the knowledge gained.

_Language of instruction_: English

## Examination formats

The course will be assessed through two main components:

Written Exam: A written exam will be conducted at the end of the course – this is the main examination. The exam will cover both the understanding and application of the concepts given in the course.

Assignments: Throughout the course, students must complete a series of compulsory assignments graded as pass or fail.

If a student who has been failed twice for the same examination element wishes to change examiner before the next examination session, such a request is to be granted unless there are specific reasons to the contrary (Chapter 6 Section 22 HF).

If a student has received a certificate of disability study support from the University of Gothenburg with a recommendation of adapted examination and/or adapted forms of assessment, an examiner may decide, if this is consistent with the course’s intended learning outcomes and provided that no unreasonable resources would be needed, to grant the student adapted examination and/or adapted forms of assessment.

If a course has been discontinued or undergone major changes, the student must be offered at least two examination sessions in addition to ordinary examination sessions. These sessions are to be spread over a period of at least one year but no more than two years after the course has been discontinued/changed. The same applies to placement and internship (VFU) except that this is restricted to only one further examination session.

If a student has been notified that they fulfil the requirements for being a student at Riksidrottsuniversitetet (RIU student), to combine elite sports activities with studies, the examiner is entitled to decide on adaptation of examinations if this is done in accordance with the Local rules regarding RIU students at the University of Gothenburg.

## Grades

_Sub-courses_

1. **Written hall examination**, 4.5 credits


Grading scale: Pass with distinction (5), Pass with credit (4), Pass (3) and Fail (U)
2. **Assignments**, 3 credits


Grading scale: Pass (G) and Fail (U

The grading scale for the whole course comprises: Pass with distinction (5), Pass with credit (4), Pass (3) and Fail (U).

The final grade of the course is the grade of the final exam.

## Course evaluation

The course is evaluated through meetings both during and after the course between teachers and student representatives. Further, an anonymous questionnaire is used to ensure written information. The outcome of the evaluations serves to improve the course by indication which parts could be added, improved, changed or removed.

## Other regulations

The course is a joint course together with Chalmers.