Menu

[University of Gothenburg](https://www.gu.se/en)

- [Contact](https://www.gu.se/en/contact)

- - [Svenska](https://www.gu.se/studera/hitta-utbildning/distribuerade-system-dit357/kursplan/988d1a60-bc59-11ef-9553-beecfac44351)
- [English](https://www.gu.se/en/study-gothenburg/distributed-systems-dit357/syllabus/988d1a60-bc59-11ef-9553-beecfac44351)

Search


Menu


Search


Search

Search

Page content

Syllabus


# Distributed Systems

## Distribuerade System

Course


DIT357


First cycle


7.5 credits (ECTS)


## About the Syllabus

Registration number (Format: GU 20XX/XXXX)


GU 2024/2323


Date of entry into force


2025-03-15


Decision date


2024-11-19


Valid from semester


Autumn term 2025


Decision maker


Department of Computer Science and Engineering


## Grading scale

Four-grade scale, digits


## Course modules

Written hall examination, 6 Credits


Laboratory work, 1.5 Credits


## Position

The course is compulsory within the Software Engineering and Management, bachelors programme (N1SOF).

## Entry requirements

- Fundamentals in programming (DIT009) or equivalent course in programming with at least 7.5 credits.
- Discrete mathematics (DIT008) or equivalent course in discrete mathematics with at least 7.5 credits.

Applicants must prove knowledge of English: English 6/English B or the equivalent level of an internationally recognized test, for example TOEFL, IELTS.

## Content

This course will first introduce computer networking and its role in distributed systems. In the first lectures, students will gain an overview of the protocol layer model of data communication and explore relevant communication protocols for distributed systems. With the basic knowledge in computer networking, the course then aims to study fundamental aspects of distributed systems, including concurrency, architecture characteristics of distributed systems, coordination between systems, security and climate impact of distributed systems.

The lectures provide students with fundamental knowledge needed to development software in distributed systems and supplementary exercises support students in consolidating their knowledge. Labs allow students to gain first hands-on experience in the development of applications for distributed systems.

## Objectives

On successful completion of the course the student will be able to:

**_Knowledge and understanding_**

- Describe reference models for computer communication in terms of function, services and protocols.
- Conceptualise key concept in distributed system development, including inter-process communication and remote procedure calls.
- Justify different architectural styles for distributed systems and their typical application.
- Resolve coordination and consistency within distributed systems.
- Explain the importance for fault-tolerance and security in distributed systems.

**_Competence and skills_**

- Utilise tools to analyse data traffic in computer networks.
- Develop applications for distributed systems using appropriate architectural styles and inter-process communication methods.
- Implement synchronisation, coordination, and consistency models for distributed systems.
- Present results of a software development project.

**_Judgement and approach_**

- Evaluate performance, scalability, reliability, security and climate impact of distributed systems.
- Judge the advantages and disadvantages of different communication protocols for distributed systems.
- Assess different architectural styles for distributed systems applications.
- Approach naming, coordination and replication of distributed systems in a systematic way.

## Sustainability labelling

The course is sustainability-related, which means that at least one of the learning outcomes clearly shows that the course content meets at least one of the University of Gothenburg's confirmed sustainability criteria.


## Form of teaching

The teaching consists of lectures, exercises, as well as a set of laboratory sessions.

_Language of instruction_: English

## Examination formats

The course is examined by an individual written hall exam (6 credits), and laboratory work (1.5 credits)

If a student who has been failed twice for the same examination element wishes to change examiner before the next examination session, such a request is to be granted unless there are specific reasons to the contrary (Chapter 6 Section 22 HF).

If a student has received a certificate of disability study support from the University of Gothenburg with a recommendation of adapted examination and/or adapted forms of assessment, an examiner may decide, if this is consistent with the course’s intended learning outcomes and provided that no unreasonable resources would be needed, to grant the student adapted examination and/or adapted forms of assessment.

If a course has been discontinued or undergone major changes, the student must be offered at least two examination sessions in addition to ordinary examination sessions. These sessions are to be spread over a period of at least one year but no more than two years after the course has been discontinued/changed. The same applies to placement and internship (VFU) except that this is restricted to only one further examination session.

If a student has been notified that they fulfil the requirements for being a student at Riksidrottsuniversitetet (RIU student), to combine elite sports activities with studies, the examiner is entitled to decide on adaptation of examinations if this is done in accordance with the Local rules regarding RIU students at the University of Gothenburg.

## Grades

**Sub-courses**

1. **_Written hall examination_**, 6 credits


Grading scale: Pass with distinction (5), Pass with credit (4), Pass (3) and Fail (U)
2. **_Laboratory work_**, 1,5 credits


Grading scale: Pass (3) and Fail (U)

The grading scale for the whole course comprises: Pass with distinction (5), Pass with credit (4), Pass (3) and Fail (U).

To pass the course, students must receive a passing grade in both modules. The grade for the entire course will be determined by the written hall exam.

## Course evaluation

The course is evaluated through meetings both during and after the course between teachers and student representatives. Further, an anonymous questionnaire is used to ensure written information. The outcome of the evaluations serves to improve the course by indication which parts could be added, improved, changed or removed.

## Other regulations

The course replaces the course DIT356, 7.5 credits. The course cannot be included in a degree which contains DIT356. Neither can the course be included in a degree which is based on another degree in which the course DIT356 is included.