Menu

[University of Gothenburg](https://www.gu.se/en)

- [Contact](https://www.gu.se/en/contact)

- - [Svenska](https://www.gu.se/studera/hitta-utbildning/projekt-webbutveckling-dit343/kursplan/7492dee8-bbbd-11ef-9553-beecfac44351)
- [English](https://www.gu.se/en/study-gothenburg/project-web-engineering-dit343/syllabus/7492dee8-bbbd-11ef-9553-beecfac44351)

Search


Menu


Search


Search

Search

Page content

Syllabus


# Project: Web Engineering

## Projekt: Webbutveckling

Course


DIT343


First cycle


7.5 credits (ECTS)


Go to
[Project: Web Engineering](https://www.gu.se/en/study-gothenburg/project-web-engineering-dit343)

## About the Syllabus

Registration number (Format: GU 20XX/XXXX)


GU 2024/2323


Date of entry into force


2025-03-15


Decision date


2024-11-19


Valid from semester


Autumn term 2025


Decision maker


Department of Computer Science and Engineering


## Grading scale

Four-grade scale, digits


## Course modules

Project, 7.5 Credits


## Position

The course is compulsory within the Software Engineering and Management, bachelors programme (N1SOF).

## Entry requirements

To be eligible for this course, students must have successfully completed the courses DIT044 Object-Oriented Programming, 7.5 credits, DIT034 Data Management, 7.5 credits, and DIT357 Distributed Systems, 7.5 credits, or equivalent.

Applicants must prove knowledge of English: English 6/English B or the equivalent level of an internationally recognized test, for example TOEFL, IELTS.

## Content

This course aims to cover key concepts, technologies and skills for server-side and client- side Web programming, including basic and advanced technologies and frameworks for interactive fullstack Web programming (HTML, CSS, JavaScript). Through this course, students will learn how to develop Web applications with dynamic and interactive contents, including Web applications designed for mobile consumption (responsiveness).

## Objectives

On successful completion of the course the student will be able to:

**_Knowledge and understanding_**

- define and contrast client-side and server-side web development
- explain the concept of full-stack development
- describe the key concepts and methods for web application development, including session management, database connectivity, asynchronous processing (AJAX), responsive design, and mobile-first web development
- explain different programming techniques for developing web applications with dynamic and interactive contents

**_Competence and skills_**

- develop Web applications with dynamic and interactive contents
- design web layouts with technologies such as HTML, CSS, and JavaScript
- develop full-stack applications using modern web libraries and frameworks
- develop mobile cross-platform applications using responsive design
- handle database connectivity and asynchronous processing

**_Judgement and approach_**

- reflect on how web programs are written, and how different components integrate, thus designing software efficiently

## Sustainability labelling

No sustainability labelling.


## Form of teaching

The main form of teaching is a project that the students work on in small groups. The project will be scaffolded into multiple milestones. Lectures and tutorials will be provided as necessary to provide learners with required theoretical and practical knowledge.

_Language of instruction_: English

## Examination formats

Assessment of individual students will be carried out based on two aspects: (1) quality of the final project of the group, and (2) individual contribution. Both aspects need to be individually assessed as at least 3 to receive a passing grade. Students are required to complete written self- and peer-assessment forms during the course which will be part of the assessment of the student's individual contribution to the assignments. Students who have not contributed sufficiently to the prooject may be asked to complete an individual assignment in order to receive a passing grade.

If a student who has been failed twice for the same examination element wishes to change examiner before the next examination session, such a request is to be granted unless there are specific reasons to the contrary (Chapter 6 Section 22 HF).

If a student has received a certificate of disability study support from the University of Gothenburg with a recommendation of adapted examination and/or adapted forms of assessment, an examiner may decide, if this is consistent with the course’s intended learning outcomes and provided that no unreasonable resources would be needed, to grant the student adapted examination and/or adapted forms of assessment.

If a course has been discontinued or undergone major changes, the student must be offered at least two examination sessions in addition to ordinary examination sessions. These sessions are to be spread over a period of at least one year but no more than two years after the course has been discontinued/changed. The same applies to placement and internship (VFU) except that this is restricted to only one further examination session.

If a student has been notified that they fulfil the requirements for being a student at Riksidrottsuniversitetet (RIU student), to combine elite sports activities with studies, the examiner is entitled to decide on adaptation of examinations if this is done in accordance with the Local rules regarding RIU students at the University of Gothenburg.

## Grades

**_Sub-courses_**

1. Project, 3 credits


Grading scale: Pass with distinction (5), Pass with credit (4), Pass (3) and Fail (U)

The grading scale for the whole course comprises: Pass with distinction (5), Pass with credit (4), Pass (3) and Fail (U).

The grade for the entire course is identical to the grade of Project submodule.

## Course evaluation

The course is evaluated through meetings both during and after the course between teachers and student representatives. Further, an anonymous questionnaire is used to ensure written information. The outcome of the evaluations serves to improve the course by indication which parts could be added, improved, changed or removed.

## Other regulations

The course replaces the course DIT342, 7.5 credits. The course cannot be included in a degree which contains DIT342. Neither can the course be included in a degree which is based on another degree in which the course DIT342 is included.