Menu

[University of Gothenburg](https://www.gu.se/en)

- [Contact](https://www.gu.se/en/contact)

- - [Svenska](https://www.gu.se/studera/hitta-utbildning/spelutvecklingsprojekt-dit461/kursplan/a9efac8b-a32c-11ef-a309-15d1eab44478)
- [English](https://www.gu.se/en/study-gothenburg/game-development-project-dit461/syllabus/a9efac8b-a32c-11ef-a309-15d1eab44478)

Search


Menu


Search


Search

Search

Page content

Syllabus


# Game Development Project

## Spelutvecklingsprojekt

Course


DIT461


Second cycle


7.5 credits (ECTS)


## About the Syllabus

Registration number (Format: GU 20XX/XXXX)


GU 2024/2323


Date of entry into force


2025-03-15


Decision date


2024-11-11


Valid from semester


Autumn term 2025


Decision maker


Department of Pedagogical, Curricular and Professional Studies


## Grading scale

Four-grade scale, digits


## Course modules

Portfolio, 7.5 Credits


## Position

The course is compulsory within the Game Design & Technology Master's Programme.

## Entry requirements

To be eligible for this course, students must have completed one or more of the following courses or equivalent:

- Introduction to Game Research, or
- Gameplay Design, or
- Game Engine Architecture, or
- Prototyping in Interaction Design, or
- Interaction design methodology, or
- Graphical Interfaces

Applicants must prove knowledge of English: English 6/English B or the equivalent level of an internationally recognized test, for example TOEFL, IELTS.

## Content

The game development project permits students an opportunity to develop a game of their choice and design. Each time the course runs a theme will be provided, and students will work together in groups to implement and deploy a game that fits into the theme.

This course is primarily intended as an opportunity for students to hone the craft of game development - some instruction is provided, but the course is primarily project and supervision based.

## Objectives

After completion of the course the student should be able to:

_Knowledge and understanding_

- Identify and describe best practice methodologies for the development of computer games
- Explain standard concepts and terms for describing games, game development tools, and game development projects

_Competence and skills_

- Apply user evaluation methods in practical projects
- Apply design & development methods systematically to create and critically compare different possibilities in game development projects
- Identify needs and requirements of specific intended user groups and stakeholders

_Judgement and approach_

- Motivate design choices in an game development process
- Conduct an informed analysis of what ethical and societal effects technical solutions can create in a game develop process

## Sustainability labelling

No sustainability labelling.


## Form of teaching

The course is primarily aimed at giving students the opportunity to build a portfolio element through the focused development of a game-related product. Students will work in groups, with supervision, to conceptualise, develop and deploy a game around a particular theme.

## Examination formats

The course is assessed from three aspects - a technical artefact, a presentation, and a written report. The overall grade is a weighted average of these units.

If a student who has been failed twice for the same examination element wishes to change examiner before the next examination session, such a request is to be granted unless there are specific reasons to the contrary (Chapter 6 Section 22 HF).

If a student has received a certificate of disability study support from the University of Gothenburg with a recommendation of adapted examination and/or adapted forms of assessment, an examiner may decide, if this is consistent with the course’s intended learning outcomes and provided that no unreasonable resources would be needed, to grant the student adapted examination and/or adapted forms of assessment.

If a course has been discontinued or undergone major changes, the student must be offered at least two examination sessions in addition to ordinary examination sessions. These sessions are to be spread over a period of at least one year but no more than two years after the course has been discontinued/changed. The same applies to placement and internship (VFU) except that this is restricted to only one further examination session.

If a student has been notified that they fulfil the requirements for being a student at Riksidrottsuniversitetet (RIU student), to combine elite sports activities with studies, the examiner is entitled to decide on adaptation of examinations if this is done in accordance with the Local rules regarding RIU students at the University of Gothenburg.

## Grades

_Sub-courses_

1. **Portfolio**, 7.5 credits


Grading scale: Pass with distinction (5), Pass with credit (4), Pass (3) and Fail (U)

The grading scale comprises: Pass with distinction (5), Pass with credit (4), Pass (3) and Fail (U).

To pass the course, approved results on all exercises are required.

The final grade of the course is based on the project report and the individual report.

## Course evaluation

The course is evaluated through meetings both during and after the course between teachers and student representatives. Further, an anonymous questionnaire is used to ensure written information. The outcome of the evaluations serves to improve the course by indication which parts could be added, improved, changed or removed.

## Other regulations

The course is a joint course together with Chalmers.

The course replaces the course DIT460, 7.5 credits. The course cannot be included in a degree which contains DIT460. Neither can the course be included in a degree which is based on another degree in which the course DIT460 is included.

The courses DIT176 Prototyping in interaction design, DIT493 Graphical interfaces, and DIT104 Interaction design methodology or equivalent are recommended.