Menu

[University of Gothenburg](https://www.gu.se/en)

- [Contact](https://www.gu.se/en/contact)

- - [Svenska](https://www.gu.se/studera/hitta-utbildning/maskininlarning-i-halso-och-sjukvard-dit634/kursplan/aff77a21-a7e7-11ef-8526-ed8750e24faf)
- [English](https://www.gu.se/en/study-gothenburg/machine-learning-in-healthcare-dit634/syllabus/aff77a21-a7e7-11ef-8526-ed8750e24faf)

Search


Menu


Search


Search

Search

Page content

Syllabus


# Machine learning in healthcare

## Maskininlärning i hälso- och sjukvård

Course


DIT634


Second cycle


7.5 credits (ECTS)


## About the Syllabus

Registration number


GU 2024/2323


Date of entry into force


2025-03-15


Decision date


2024-11-11


Valid from semester


Autumn term 2025


Decision maker


Department of Computer Science and Engineering


## Grading scale

Four-grade scale, digits


## Course modules

Assignments, 4.5 Credits


Written hall examination, 3 Credits


## Position

The course can be part of the following programmes:

1. Applied data science, masters programme (N2ADS)

## Entry requirements

One course of at least 5 hec each in programming, calculus, linear algebra and mathematical statistics (or the course DIT863). One course of at least 7,5 hec in machine learning, for example DIT968, DIT382 or DIT867 or equivalent. The course assumes that students are comfortable with basic concepts in probability & statistics, including random variables, probability distributions and densities and expectations.

Applicants must prove knowledge of English: English 6/English B or the equivalent level of an internationally recognized test, for example TOEFL, IELTS.

## Content

The content is structured into several modules, one for each week of the course. We begin by introducing the domain of machine learning in healthcare and common types of medical data, including coding systems and natural language. We will cover methods that use such diverse data to solve a variety of learning tasks at the level of a single patient and at population level. We will study special considerations which should be taken when applying learning algorithms in healthcare, including dealing with uncertainty and interpretability of model outputs. Additionally, we will cover sufficient conditions for drawing causal inferences from historical data. Toward the end of the course, we will discuss implementation challenges in healthcare processes.

## Objectives

On successful completion of the course the student will be able to:

_Knowledge and understanding_

-  Give an overview of distinguishing factors of machine learning in healthcare as contrasted with other applications domains
- Describe important learning problems in healthcare and give detailed descriptions of methods used to solve them
- Account for common data types encountered in health applications and their sources
- Describe ethical, regulatory and societal considerations related to working with health data

_Competence and skills_

- Formalize learning problems based on inference or decision-making tasks in healthcare
- Gather and preprocess health data for use in machine learning algorithms
- Implement and apply machine learning methods for specific problems

_Judgement and approach_

- Discuss pros and cons of different machine learning methods for the same problem
- Reflect over the fundamental limitations of available data, infrastructure and learning algorithms in solving a particular task
- Critically analyse and discuss research and applications of machine learning in healthcare

## Sustainability labelling

No sustainability labelling.


## Form of teaching

Modules composed of lectures, guest lectures and hand-in assignments.

_Language of instruction_: English

## Examination formats

Hand-in assignments and written hall examination.

If a student who has been failed twice for the same examination element wishes to change examiner before the next examination session, such a request is to be granted unless there are specific reasons to the contrary (Chapter 6 Section 22 HF).

If a student has received a certificate of disability study support from the University of Gothenburg with a recommendation of adapted examination and/or adapted forms of assessment, an examiner may decide, if this is consistent with the course’s intended learning outcomes and provided that no unreasonable resources would be needed, to grant the student adapted examination and/or adapted forms of assessment.

If a course has been discontinued or undergone major changes, the student must be offered at least two examination sessions in addition to ordinary examination sessions. These sessions are to be spread over a period of at least one year but no more than two years after the course has been discontinued/changed. The same applies to placement and internship (VFU) except that this is restricted to only one further examination session.

If a student has been notified that they fulfil the requirements for being a student at Riksidrottsuniversitetet (RIU student), to combine elite sports activities with studies, the examiner is entitled to decide on adaptation of examinations if this is done in accordance with the Local rules regarding RIU students at the University of Gothenburg.

## Grades

_Sub-courses_

1. Written hall examination, 3 credits


Grading scale: Pass with distinction (5), Pass with credit (4), Pass (3) and Fail (U)
2. Assignments, 4,5 credits


Grading scale: Pass with distinction (5), Pass with credit (4), Pass (3) and Fail (U)

To pass the course (grade 3), the student must obtain at least 40 % of the total points in the hand-in problems and at least 40 % of the total points in the exam assignment. Higher grades require, in addition to the above, that the combined score from the hand-in problems and the exam, weighted by 60 % and 40 % respectively, exceeds 60 % for grade 4 or 80 % for grade 5.

## Course evaluation

The course is evaluated through meetings both during and after the course between teachers and student representatives. Further, an anonymous questionnaire is used to ensure written information. The outcome of the evaluations serves to improve the course by indication which parts could be added, improved, changed or removed.

## Other regulations

The course is a joint course together with Chalmers.