Menu

[University of Gothenburg](https://www.gu.se/en)

- [Contact](https://www.gu.se/en/contact)

- - [Svenska](https://www.gu.se/studera/hitta-utbildning/kandidatarbete-inom-software-engineering-and-management-dit837/kursplan/c183ebcd-2d4b-11ef-a2a0-4c1db4504bb5)
- [English](https://www.gu.se/en/study-gothenburg/bachelor-thesis-in-software-engineering-and-management-dit837/syllabus/c183ebcd-2d4b-11ef-a2a0-4c1db4504bb5)

Search


Menu


Search


Search

Search

Page content

Syllabus


# Bachelor Thesis in Software Engineering and Management

## Kandidatarbete inom Software Engineering and Management

Course


DIT837


First cycle


15 credits (ECTS)


## About the Syllabus

Registration number


GU 2023-2239


Date of entry into force


2025-01-20


Decision date


2024-06-19


Valid from semester


Spring term 2025


Decision maker


Department of Computer Science and Engineering


## Grading scale

Three-grade scale


## Course modules

Bachelor's thesis report, 15 Credits


## Position

The course is a compulsory course in the N1SOF Software Engineering and Management Bachelor's Programme.

## Entry requirements

To be eligible for this course, students must have successfully completed 110 credits in Software Engineering. In addition, students must have successfully completed Research Methods in Software Engineering, 7.5 credits.

## Content

The course involves an investigation of a relevant problem in the Software Engineering domain. The problem is identified by the students and shall have practical and/or theoretical relevance for the SE domain. Students work in groups, preferably within a company setting in which the problem they address is investigated. The investigation shall be documented in the form of a written thesis report.

## Objectives

On successful completion of the course the student will be able to:

**Knowledge and understanding**

- Identify a topic and question within the software engineering domain
- Explain the use of a research method for planning a project
- Describe the current practice within the software engineering domain and the way in which practical problems and academic research may be related

**Competence and skills**

- Formulate a question relevant in the software engineering domain
- Systematically solve a problem relevant in the software engineering domain
- Apply a research method for solving a problem relevant to the topic
- Combine theories, models and/or methods relevant to the topic
- Plan and conduct a project and document this in a written thesis report
- Integrate knowledge in a systematic and critical way in order to achieve and present knowledge relevant to the software engineering domain
- Communicate this knowledge in an academic environment, i.e. to present the research results to an academic audience

**Judgement and approach**

- Describe the software engineering domains that are relevant to the area of the subject
- Reflect on the need for further knowledge and give suggestions for future problems in the subject

## Sustainability labelling

No sustainability labelling.


## Form of teaching

The students write a thesis proposal according to the guidelines on the study program software engineering and management. The thesis proposal shall provide a detaileddescription of the problem/task. The thesis proposal must also contain the background, purpose, objective, scope, and method. The thesis proposal is submitted to the examiner for approval.

The examiner will ensure that the proposed topic for the thesis meets the general learning outcomes for theses.

The examiner ensures that the thesis falls within the software engineering domain, and that the research question is academically relevant.

**Supervision**

The students are entitled to regular supervision during the course of the their work.

**Progress report**

Halfway through the thesis work, the students must report the status of of their work to the examiner through a progress report. The progress report shall describe the achievements within the thesis work up to the halfway point, and include a plan for completing the remainder of the thesis work.

**Written thesis report**

The thesis report must be written in English.

The thesis report must be checked for plagiarism, typically using anti-plagiarism software.

The University of Gothenburg's policies regarding open access and confidentiality apply to the work on the thesis and to publishing the report.

When two students work jointly on a thesis, the division of thw work must be clearly stated in the thesis report.

**Oral presentation**

The oral presentation begins with the students presenting their work. This is followed by opposition (guided by other students) and discussion (guided by the examiner).

The oral presentation must be made in English.

At the time of the oral presentation, the written thesis report must be completed but not published. This is to make it possible to include viewpoints that arise during the oral presentation, from the written opposition report, and from the examiner, to be incorporated into the written thesis report.

The oral presentation and the opposition must be done at University of Gothenburg.

**Opposition report**

The students must write an opposition report according to the guidelines on the study program software engineering and management. The opposition report is submitted to the examiner for approval.

_Language of instruction_: English

## Examination formats

For the thesis to be approved, the following stages must be completed:

- an approved thesis proposal
- an approved progress report
- an approved written thesis report
- an approved presentation and defense of the thesis during the oral presentation
- an approved opposition of another thesis
- an approved opposition report

If a student who has twice received a failing grade for the same examination component wishes to change examiner ahead of the next examination session, such a request should be made to the department in writing and should be approved by the department unless there are special reasons to the contrary (Chapter 6 Section 22 of the Higher Education Ordinance).

If a student has received a recommendation from the University of Gothenburg for study support for students with disabilities, the examiner may, where it is compatible with the learning outcomes of the course and provided that no unreasonable resources are required,

decide to allow the student to sit an adjusted exam or alternative form of assessment.

In the event that a course has ceased or undergone major changes, students are to be guaranteed at least three examination sessions (including the ordinary examination session) over a period of at least one year, but no more than two years after the course has ceased/

been changed. The same applies to internships and professional placements (VFU), although this is restricted to just one additional examination session.

## Grades

The grading scale comprises: Pass with Distinction (VG), Pass (G) and Fail (U).

A pass grade (G) for the entire course requires a pass grade for all stages in the course. The requirement to Pass (G) the written thesis report is that the student in the written thesis report demonstrates the ability to formulate and investigate a problem relevant to the software engineering domain. The student is expected to show abilities in systematically solving this problem by applying a research method and to plan and conduct a study in an appropriate way. The student has to be able to discuss the problem and the fundamentals of the topic in a relevant and critical way. In the written thesis report, the student needs to use terminology common within the problem domain and show the ability to apply theories and models relevant to the topic, that add to the investigation of the problem. An attempt to critically reflect on the problem and the literature describing this is required.

To be awarded Pass with Distinction (VG) for the entire course, the student must, in addition, receive a VG on the written thesis report. The requirement to Pass with Distinction (VG) in the written thesis report is that the student in the written thesis report demonstrates the ability to formulate and investigate a problem relevant to the software engineering domain. The student is expected to show abilities in systematically solving this problem by applying a research method and to plan and conduct a study in an appropriate way. Furthermore, the student has to be able to discuss the problem and the fundamentals of the topic in an efficient and exhaustive way. In the written thesis report the student needs to critically reflect on the topic, to critically reflect on theories and models, and to critically assess the strengths and weaknesses that characterize the study that is conducted. This includes using a wide range of highly relevant references to support an argument, to discuss and analyze potentially contradicting aspects and to illustrate a deeper understanding of the complexities involved in the problem by synthesizing information relevant to solve the problem.

## Course evaluation

The results of and possible changes to the course will be shared with students who participated in the evaluation and students who are starting the course.

## Other regulations

Course literature to be announced the latest 8 weeks prior to the start of the course.