Menu

[University of Gothenburg](https://www.gu.se/en)

- [Contact](https://www.gu.se/en/contact)

- - [Svenska](https://www.gu.se/studera/hitta-utbildning/projektarbete-del-1-tia330/kursplan/65593608-27f9-11ef-b10b-da55b44e4fba)
- [English](https://www.gu.se/en/study-gothenburg/project-work-i-tia330/syllabus/65593608-27f9-11ef-b10b-da55b44e4fba)

Search


Menu


Search


Search

Search

Page content

Syllabus


# Project Work I

## Projektarbete, del 1

Course


TIA330


Second cycle


7.5 credits (ECTS)


## About the Syllabus

Registration number


GU 2024/210


Date of entry into force


2024-06-10


Decision date


2024-06-10


Valid from semester


Autumn Semester 2024


Decision maker


Department of Applied Information Technology


## Grading scale

Two-grade scale


## Course modules

Project Work I, 7.5 Credits


## Position

The course is a compulsory course in Digital Leadership Master's Programme (N2DGL).

## Entry requirements

Registration on TIA315 Technology, 7.5 credits, TIA320 Platforms, 7.5 credits and TIA325 Infrastructure, 7.5 credits, or equivalent.

## Content

This course develops students’ ability to analyze the challenges of digitalization. Students will apply their learning from previous courses (TIA315 Technology, TIA320 Platforms, and TIA325 Infrastructure), and adopt theoretical perspectives in order to analyze problems, in real world cases. The course will also prepare students for their master thesis.

In the course, students will identify a research question and motivate it. The students will do a literature review related to prior courses, and explain the theoretical background. After data collection and analysis, students will summarize their findings, and connect them to prior literature. During the course, the student groups and the teacher will meet regularly for supervision.

## Objectives

On successful completion of the course the student will be able to:

_Knowledge and understanding_

1\. identify challenges of digitalization in real cases;

2\. explain theoretical concepts related to digitalization in real world contexts;

_Competence and skills_

3\. analyze problems in the digitalization process;

4\. design solutions to address real world digitalization problems;

_Judgement and approach_

5\. discuss connections between theoretical concepts in digitalization and real world digitalization problems.

## Sustainability labelling

No sustainability labelling.


## Form of teaching

The course is implemented through project assignments, supervision, and a presentation.

Language of instruction: English

## Examination formats

The assessment consists of two parts.

Part 1. Progress reports and supervision

Students are assessed on the basis of progress reports and supervision sessions.

Part 2. Final reports and presentation

Students are assessed on the basis of:

- A _group report_, where students in the project group collaboratively relate concepts and theoretical perspectives learnt from prior courses to real world problems. The students in the project group also collaboratively identify and explain specific problems, propose actions, and justify them.
- A _group presentation_, where the students in the project group collaboratively present project findings.
- An _individual reflection report_, where students summarizes their individual contributions to the project, and reflect on the learning process throughout it.

If a student who has twice received a failing grade for the same examination component wishes to change examiner ahead of the next examination session, such a request should be made to the department in writing and should be approved by the department unless there are special reasons to the contrary (Chapter 6 Section 22 of the Higher Education Ordinance).

If a student has received a recommendation from the University of Gothenburg for study support for students with disabilities, the examiner may, where it is compatible with the learning outcomes of the course and provided that no unreasonable resources are required, decide to allow the student to sit an adjusted exam or alternative form of assessment.

In the event that a course has ceased or undergone major changes, students are to be guaranteed at least three examination sessions (including the ordinary examination session) over a period of at least one year, but no more than two years after the course has ceased/been changed. The same applies to internships and professional placements (VFU), although this is restricted to just one additional examination session.

## Grades

The grading scale comprises: Pass (G) and Fail (U). In order to pass the course, students need to pass both parts.

## Course evaluation

After completion of the course the students are to be given the opportunity to participate in a course evaluation electronically. The result of the course evaluation is to be made accessible to the students. The next time the course is given the processed result of the course evaluation is to be presented to the students including possible changes brought about as a result of the course evaluation.

## Other regulations

The course cannot be included in a degree together with the course TIA304 Project Work I, 7,5 credits.