Menu

[University of Gothenburg](https://www.gu.se/en)

- [Contact](https://www.gu.se/en/contact)

- - [Svenska](https://www.gu.se/studera/hitta-utbildning/kritiska-perspektiv-pa-digitala-diskurser-tia555/kursplan/4adc868f-111b-11ef-a272-18dd79e54a0c)
- [English](https://www.gu.se/en/study-gothenburg/critical-topics-in-digital-discourse-tia555/syllabus/4adc868f-111b-11ef-a272-18dd79e54a0c)

Search


Menu


Search


Search

Search

Page content

Syllabus


# Critical Topics in Digital Discourse

## Kritiska perspektiv på digitala diskurser

Course


TIA555


Second cycle


7.5 credits (ECTS)


Go to
[Critical Topics in Digital Discourse](https://www.gu.se/en/study-gothenburg/critical-topics-in-digital-discourse-tia555)

## About the Syllabus

Registration number


GU 2024/210


Date of entry into force


2024-06-10


Decision date


2024-06-10


Valid from semester


Autumn Semester 2024


Decision maker


Department of Applied Information Technology


## Grading scale

Two-grade scale


## Course modules

Critical Perspectives in Digital Discourse, 7.5 Credits


## Position

The course is part of Master in Communication (N2CMN).

## Entry requirements

A bachelor's degree of 180 credits, of which a minimum of 90 credits in a major subject.

Applicants must have sufficient English language competence: English 6 from SwedishUpper Secondary School or the equivalent level of an internationally recognized test, forexample TOEFL, IELTS.

## Content

This course is dedicated to in-depth reading and debate on current and emerging topics in digital media. Lectures, seminars, and assessments will focus on students developing the ability to understand critical debates on and around digital media and cultivating students’ ability to independently formulate their own critical responses to those debates. Possible topics of reading and discussion include ethics of AI, the role of power in creating biased information systems, environmental impacts of digital infrastructures, and questions of privacy and freedom in online communications.

## Objectives

On successful completion of the course the student will be able to:

_Knowledge and understanding_

- understand key concepts, developments and problems in current critical debates around digital media;

_Competence and skills_

- analyze a text through a systematic approach to annotation and revision;
- explain and apply key concepts in critical media/communication studies;
- formulate innovative critical questions in light of oversights, limits, and ambiguities in academic texts;
- practice dialogue and open-ended discussion as a method of critical inquiry and intellectual collaboration.

## Sustainability labelling

No sustainability labelling.


## Form of teaching

Lectures, seminars, workshops, group work, case-studies, and exercises in writing and speaking.

Language of instruction: English

## Examination formats

At the end of the course, students are assessed based on their work during the course, done both individually and in groups, and an individual written reflection. Students are assessed based on a dossier compiling and documenting written and class exercises, supplemented by a critical reflection on findings (7.5 credits).

This course requires sufficiently regular attendance and engagement in class to complete in-class exercises and group project. If student attendance or participation is infrequent or irregular, the examiner may decide to provide an alternative written examination (e.g., written commentaries on readings and lectures).

**Reassessment**

Dossier of reading responses, supplemented by a critical reflection.

If a student who has twice received a failing grade for the same examination component wishes to change examiner ahead of the next examination session, such a request should be made to the department in writing and should be approved by the department unless there are special reasons to the contrary (Chapter 6 Section 22 of the Higher Education Ordinance).

If a student has received a recommendation from the University of Gothenburg for study support for students with disabilities, the examiner may, where it is compatible with the learning outcomes of the course and provided that no unreasonable resources are required, decide to allow the student to sit an adjusted exam or alternative form of assessment.

In the event that a course has ceased or undergone major changes, students are to be guaranteed at least three examination sessions (including the ordinary examination session) over a period of at least one year, but no more than two years after the course has ceased/been changed. The same applies to internships and professional placements (VFU), although this is restricted to just one additional examination session.

## Grades

The grading scale comprises: Pass (P) and Fail (U) for all assessments.

For the grade Pass (P) on the course, Pass (P) is required on all assignments.

## Course evaluation

After completion of the course the students are to be given the possibility of participating in a course evaluation anonymously. The results of the evaluation and possible changes to the course brought about as a result of the course evaluation will be shared with students who participated in the evaluation and new students at the beginning of the next course.

Additionally, the course coordinator will conduct a mid-term informal evaluation during the course, which will provide the course coordinator with the opportunity of incorporating students’ feedback in the second half of the course.

## Other regulations

The use of generative AI tools is allowed for completing the written assignments, so long as students document their use of the tool (e.g., a record of prompts and revisions used to complete the assessment).