Menu

[University of Gothenburg](https://www.gu.se/en)

- [Contact](https://www.gu.se/en/contact)

- - [Svenska](https://www.gu.se/studera/hitta-utbildning/introduktion-till-organisationskommunikation-tia510/kursplan/c60ed8b0-0ed1-11ef-a272-18dd79e54a0c)
- [English](https://www.gu.se/en/study-gothenburg/introduction-to-organisational-communication-tia510/syllabus/c60ed8b0-0ed1-11ef-a272-18dd79e54a0c)

Search


Menu


Search


Search

Search

Page content

Syllabus


# Introduction to Organisational Communication

## Introduktion till organisationskommunikation

Course


TIA510


Second cycle


7.5 credits (ECTS)


## About the Syllabus

Registration number


GU 2024/210


Date of entry into force


2024-06-10


Decision date


2024-06-10


Valid from semester


Autumn Semester 2024


Decision maker


Department of Applied Information Technology


## Grading scale

Three-grade scale


## Course modules

Group Assignment , 3.5 Credits


Individual Assignment, 4 Credits


## Position

The course is a compulsory course within Master in Communication (N2CMN). It is an introductory course in the second cycle.

## Entry requirements

A bachelor's degree of 180 credits, of which a minimum of 90 credits in a major subject.

Applicants must have sufficient English language competence: English 6 from SwedishUpperSecondary School or the equivalent level of an internationally recognized test,forexample TOEFL, IELTS.

## Content

This course familiarises students with research developments, methods, debates and key issues in the field of organisational communication. Drawing on multiple disciplines, including public relations, organisational studies, psychology and management research, the course discusses concepts and problems in internal and external organisational communication.

Moreover, the course addresses how societal, economic, political and cultural factors influence organisational communication. The course provides students with the ability to explain and critically discuss concepts and approaches to organisational communication as well as to communicate them to non-academic audiences.

## Objectives

On successful completion of the course the student will be able to:

_Knowledge and understanding_

1\. explain concepts, developments and problems in internal and external organisational communication;

_Competence and skills_

2\. review literature on organisational communication as well as identify inconsistencies, gaps and contradictions in the state of research;

3\. communicate theoretical concepts and approaches in organisational communication to non-academic audiences;

_Judgement and approach_

4\. discuss theoretical approaches and their value for describing and explaining organisational communication phenomena;

5\. constructively criticise approaches to organisational communication research.

## Sustainability labelling

No sustainability labelling.


## Form of teaching

Lectures, seminars, workshops, group assignments, case-studies, and problem-based learning.

## Examination formats

The course is examined through two assignments:

- Assignment 1 (LO 1, 3, 4). Group assignment (includes oral presentation, written assignment, and seminar participation). 3.5 credits
- Assignment 2 (LO 1, 2, 4, 5). Individual assignment (includes written assignment and seminar participation). 4 credits.

The use of generative AI tools is not allowed for completing the assignments.

All assignments require attendance to mandatory sessions. If a student is unable to attend a mandatory session, the examiner may decide to provide an alternative form of examination.

Supplementation of a failed assignment (both individual and group assignment) is allowed, if the examiner deems it possible for the student to achieve a pass grade by means of minor supplementation.

If a student who has twice received a failing grade for the same examination component wishes to change examiner ahead of the next examination session, such a request should be made to the department in writing and should be approved by the department unless there are special reasons to the contrary (Chapter 6 Section 22 of the Higher Education Ordinance).

If a student has received a recommendation from the University of Gothenburg for study support for students with disabilities, the examiner may, where it is compatible with the learning outcomes of the course and provided that no unreasonable resources are required, decide to allow the student to sit an adjusted exam or alternative form of assessment.

In the event that a course has ceased or undergone major changes, students are to be guaranteed at least three examination sessions (including the ordinary examination session) over a period of at least one year, but no more than two years after the course has ceased/been changed.

## Grades

The grading scale comprises: Pass with Distinction (VG), Pass (G) and Fail (U).

- Assessment 1, Group assignment, will be graded Pass (G) or Fail (U).
- Assessment 2, Individual assignment, will be graded Pass with Distinction (VG), Pass (G) or Fail (U).

For the grade Pass (G) on the course, Pass (G) is required on the two assessments. For the grade Pass with Distinction (VG) on the course, Pass with Distinction (VG) is required for Assignment 2 and Pass (G) on Assignment 1.

## Course evaluation

Students are to be given the opportunity to communicate their experience and views regarding the course in an anonymous course evaluation. The results of the course evaluation are to be made accessible to the students. Processed results of the latest evaluation, including changes made or planned, are also to be made available to participants in the next round of the course.

Additionally, the course coordinator will conduct a mid-term that will provide the course coordinator with the opportunity of incorporating students’ feedback in the second half of the course.

## Other regulations

The course cannot be included in a degree together with the course TIA085 Communicative Leadership or the course TIA059 Organizational Communication.